# SMART-SHOPPING-APPLICATION


In the wake of arranging occupied supermarket aisles, you frequently need to pick the line you think will move speediest to stand a possibility of getting your shopping home before the frozen yogurt liquefies. Now a days shopping at big malls is becoming a daily activity in most of the cities. We can see huge rush at malls specially on holidays and during weekends. The rush is even more when there are special offers and discount. People purchase various items and put them in trolley. After total purchase one needs to go to the billing counter for their payments. At the billing counter the cashier prepare the bill using bar-code reader which is particularly tedious process that outcomes in long lines at billing counters. But this time-consuming ritual may become a thing of the past thanks to smart shopping application in the hands of the user. Our aim is to develop a system that can be used in shopping malls to solve the above-mentioned challenge. The system will be placed in all the smart phones. It will consist of a QR-Code reader. All the products in the mall will be equipped with QR-Codes. When a person scans any product, and puts it in the trolley, its code will be detected and the price of those products will be stored. Thus, the billing will be done in his application itself. Item name and its cost will be displayed on his smart phone.
In the modern world, every supermarket employs shopping baskets and shopping trolleys in order to aid customers to select and store the products which they intend to purchase. The customers have pick and drop every product which they wish to purchase into the shopping cart and proceed to checkout at the billing counter. The billing process is exceptionally tedious
